---
GEP: 3
Title: Authentication & Authorization
Discussion: TBU
Implementation: TBU
---
# Authentication & Authorization

## Abstract

Glide doesn't support any authentications or authorizations right now. All routers are available to all clients.
This allows to use Glide only in a limited number of internal use cases.

## Motivation

We need to bring authentication and authorization in some form to
open up a door for Glide to be used in a wider range of use cases.

Having a notion of user or a session will help with future features like:
- budgeting
- usage tracking
- rate limiting
- etc.

### Use Cases

- I would like to have authN & authz working out of the box without a need to have a separate user management system in place.
- I want to limit a number of requests made to a specific router by user/team/org
- I want to give my user/team/org budgets and ensure they are not going above them
- I would like to use my existing user management system/SSO to manage my Glide users
- I would like to tag users to categorize them.
- I would like to storage some additional metadata in Glide user data
- I would like to restrict access to a specific set of routers on user/team/org levels
- I would like to get Glide work with my existing auth servers based on OAuth 2.0 or OIDC

### Requirements

[TBU, list all key requirements to keep in mind, use https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119 verbs]

## Design

[TBU, all information about the proposed solution, possibly evaluations against the requirements]

## Other Solution Analysis

### Bricks

The Bricks gateway has a built-in user management admin API.
The [user model](https://github.com/bricks-cloud/BricksLLM/blob/main/internal/user/user.go) allows to:
- revoke the users
- give them access to other resources like models/custom paths/custom API keys (e.g. kinda routers)
- set budget caps
- set rate limit limits
- user's TTL
- tags (e.g. a list of strings)
- User ID (e.g. to link it with some external user representation)

Another concept they have is custom API keys that can be linked to a user.
A custom API key contains this info:
- revoke status
- budget and rate limits
- tags
- allowed paths
- should log req/resp
- rotation enabled?
- some settings IDs (e.g. provider chat request params)
- policy ID (e.g. policies have to do with safety rules/PII masking/etc)

Authentication works this way:
- The service checks a custom key in `X-API-KEY` or `API-KEY` headers
- try to load it and check the key's restrictions
- User ID is passed as a part of the request payload (at least for the chat API)

### Tyk OS

TBU

### Traefik

The Traefik Gateway doesn't have a notion of users or sessions. 
Authentication is implemented as a middleware. The following authN options are supported:
- Basic Auth
- Digest Auth
- Forward Auth (e.g. send a request to another service and if the req failed, it denies processing the original request)

### OpenTelemetry Collector

The OTel Collector is inherently an internal service, but it supports a number of authentications:
- Basic Auth
- OAuth2 Client
- OIDC
- JIRA Auth

It collects auth-specific info (e.g. claims) and incoming headers to create client identity or context.

### Kong

TBU

### Portkey

TBU

## Future Work

[TBU, what we put outside of the equation now, but may want to consider in the future]

## References

- https://github.com/bricks-cloud/BricksLLM/blob/main/internal/user/user.go
- https://github.com/apache/apisix/blob/master/docs/en/latest/plugins/authz-keycloak.md
- https://github.com/spinnaker/gate/tree/master
